---
aliases:
  - Principles of reliable data transfer
tags:
  - net
References: 
cssclasses: 
sr-due: 2025-01-12
sr-interval: 54
sr-ease: 248
---
# Principles of reliable data transfer.
The problem of comunication within the internet lies on **how to transfer data reliablely using an unreliable channel.** 
We’ll use simplified system to understand the different problems that may occur during transfer. For this systems we’ll implement interfaces, encharged on different aspets of the transfer.

## Interfaces and assumptions:
+ The reliable data transfer protocol is referenced by the acronym **RDT**(**R**eliable **D**ata **T**ransfer).
> [!NOTE] Definitions: 
> + **rdt_send()**: Used to send data over a reliable channel. 
> 	+ Called from an app 
> + **udt_send()**: Used to send data over an unreliable channel
> 	+ Called by rdt to start the transfer
> + **rdt_rcv()** : Used to receive reliable data
> 	+ Called when packet arrives
> + **deliver_data**(): Delivers the data to the app.
> 	+ Called by rdt to deliver to app

+ The **difficulties in implementation** will rely on **the channel and it’s properties**

For the following implementations we’ll take into account the following **assumptions**

+ **Only unidirectional data transfer:** The sender only sends and the reciever only recieves. For info to go both ways → Turn around themodel

+ Sender, reciever only know what is communicated.They do not know the state of the other one. state? → FSM (see Automatas if any doubd)

+ The sender and receiver are **finite state machines (FSM)** and therefore:
	+ There is a **current state**
	+ They change state based on the input (pck’s)

> [!quote] Remember: 
> A reliable transmission means:
> + All packets arrive
> + Packets arrive **in order** to the APP


## Implementations:
We’ll go through different implementations of the RDT, each of them will be different because of the **differences in the communication channel**.

> [!warning] Remarks:
> When implementing transfer, we assure a reliable transmission of data. We **do not assure a reliable transmission of the acknowledgment packages.** This is a problem that is later solved.

1. No problems → [[1727187154 - Method - RDT Over reliable channel|Method - RDT Over reliable channel]]
2. Channel with bit errors → [[1727187698 - Method - RDT With bit errors|Method - RDT With bit errors]]
3. Channel with errors and losses → [[1727187769 - Method - RDT With errors and loss|Method - RDT With errors and loss]]
These implementations end up fixing the problems generated by the communication channel, however they have a drawback: **They are extremly slow**. 
+ Waiting 1 RTT each time that u send is not efficient.
In order to solve this we use the [[1727187791 - Method - RDT Sliding window|sliding window implementation]].