---
id: 1748346716-file-design
aliases:
  - File design
tags: []
---

# File design

## Physical Design of the Logical record: THe record design for the file is created using the following concepts: 
+ **Data element**: Smallest, Indivisible unit. 
$$
field\_name \space \space Type(size)
$$
	+ If the field_name is optional it will be bracketed. 
+ **Data aggregation:** Arrangement of elements. (groupings) 
	+ **Vector:** Fixed number of elements that jointly define a concept. 
	  $$
	  (element_1; element_2;...;element_n)
	  $$
	+ **Repeating group:** An element or group of them that reap themselfs based on some rule. The notation an rules are given by:
	  $$
	  (element)^* : \text{for 0...N occurrences}
	  $$
	  $$
	  (element)^+ : \text{for 1...N occurrences}
	  $$
	  $$
	  (element)^k : \text{for k times}
	  $$

Based on this concepts we define the logical view of the record. 

> An example of this logical record design would be:
> $$
> \begin{array}{lll}
\text { Title } & \mathrm{C}(42) & \\
\text { Year } & \mathrm{N}(4) & \\
\text { Producer } & \mathrm{C}(20) & \\
\text { Genre } & \mathrm{C}(9) & \\
\text { Director } & \text { (name } \mathrm{C}(20), \text { surname } & \mathrm{C}(20) \text { ) } \\
\text { Stars } & \text { (name } \mathrm{C}(20), \text { surname } & \mathrm{C}(20))^{+5} \\
{\left[\begin{array}{ll}
\text { ST. Author } & \text { (name } \\
\quad \mathrm{C}(20), \text { surname } & \mathrm{C}(20)), \\
\text { Format } & \left.\mathrm{C}(3)^{* 3}\right]
\end{array}\right.} &
\end{array}
> $$

### Finding the efficient method: 
If we try to store the max number of bytes for each element (in case we have that amount) we’ll be adding a ton of padding. This is called **worst design**. To find a better design we use concept of **data density:**
Data density is used to analyze how good is the storage usage. In order to calculate it we use:
+ **Volume:** the characers required for some record, in the general case
+ **Occupation:** The characters that are actually being usefull, not padding.

The density then:
+ Higher is better
$$

$$
> **GAP:** Explain here how density analyzes the records saving efficiency. (Slide 15)
 
Then, in order to increase the density we need to reduce the real volume of the record, but keep the readability (somehow now whre something ends an the next thing beggins). 
In order to solve this we’ll add some extra bytes to each data elements to store.
1. **Existence:** For optional elements
   + Existence bytes can be dispense of if the null value and empty string are not different. As leng = 0 will be equal to having an existence byte. 
     > **Oracle:** Does not distinguish.
2. **Lenght:** How many bytes being used
   + Looses the max lenght 
   + Can take as big as a byte lets it
    > Ex: This byte is used in the VARCHAR2 type but not used in the CHAR type
    
    
3. **Reitereation:** For repeating groups, marks the number of occurrences
4. **End-of-field:** If an element has an undefined lenght a character for the end-of-field is used. 
   + Deciding the end of filed character is however challenging as it needs to be different to all symbols. Large numbers of bytes are used.

There are also other **recod marks** used for other things besides efficiency.
1. **End | Beggining of Record:** Shows where a record begins | ends. 
2. **Typo:** The type of the next record
3. **Bitmap:** Shows all the occurring optinal elements. Join all optional bytes together. 

### Field coding:

> [!NOTE] Intro: 
> Changing some values for other ones in order to save space. 
> > Ex: Yes | NO trasnformed into 1 | 0  

There are several types of field coding:
1. **Numeric Coding:** 
	1. ASCII into bytes base 256. 
	2. Using a lower bound to obtain smaller numbers.
2. **Enumerated:**
	1. For list of possible values for some given value, each of those possible values are enumerated. 
	2. **Pseudoenumerated:** Save one value for “odd” values that we do not know. The output for any odd value is explicitly given within the record.
3. **Dates:** 
   For most dates using two bytes is enough (it can save up to 180 years). However the first mentioned option, known as extended dates can also be used.
   > **Oracle:** Uses extended dates
   
	1.  Use the number of days passed since some base date (similar to the lower bound method)

