---
aliases:
- def
tags:
- 
---
# def
# A look into bitcoin p2p network

After the meeting we had about the topic for my final project i started thinking about implementing a bitcoin modified miner to map the topology of the bitcoin p2p network.

I started researching the bitcoin network and code as well as previous studies and articles on the matter i found out some projects such as ^[1] Bitnodes that are constantly estimating the size of the bitcoin network by finding all reachable nodes. I also looked at previous studies on mapping the network ^[2].

Following the initial idea I could base myself on this papers and create my own mapper for the network, having to deal with problems such as how to map stable nodes that wont accept any new node connections. However while thinking about doing so I realized I do not know how to analyze the results I get from a cybersecurity perspective as I've never before studied network topologies and their impact in depth. 

I still like the idea and therefore my project proposal will keep it. I would like to do a research project on previous attacks and possible vulnerabilities to the bitcoin p2p network, gathering info about the existing attack surface. If after or during my research i find that getting to know the topology of the bitcoin network would benefit me in some particular way i will try to work on it. But also within this research i would like to try and simulate previous attacks or known vulnerabilities by creating a small bitcoin network of my own to play with.
The objective of this simulation would be to learn and understand the vulnerabilities and propose ways of protecting this small network from them. 

Based on my current knowledge I'm not sure if the simulation of this network is within my capabilities given the time I have at my disposal and therefore my proposal maintains a division between the research as main focus and objective of the project and the simulation as secondary one. 



^[1] https://bitnodes.io/ 
^[2] https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2096720924000733; https://coinexplorers.com/insights/map-of-the-bitcoin-network-very-nice-article-hr6w4v; https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC12360650/

***
### Up
### Down
***
