---
aliases:
- domain
tags:
- net
---
# domain
> [!info] Intro: 
> A domain its the human readable version of an ip. Because remembering 125.42.32.2 if i want to go read the news is just not happening. 

Domains are not bought but rented from the [ICANN](https://lookup.icann.org). This renting process can be done in bulk. Taking a lot of domains and then selling second level domains that generate from them. 
## Understanding domains:
Domains are composed of three parts: 
1. **TLD(Top Level Domains):** These are the ones at the very end `.com, .es, .dev` are all top level domains.
   Usually owned by big companies that then rent second level domains generated from them. 
2. **SLD(Second Level Domains):** `something.topleveldomain` the something is the subdomain. Soo `google.com` has google as subdomain then .com as top level domain. 
   Owned by registry services such as [namecheap](https://www.namecheap.com) or godaddy. 
3. **Subdomains:** Any domain that derives from a second level domain. `subdomain.sld.tdl`
Domains are diferentiated by points. So each level goes one deeper based on its parent and a point. Also the deeper a domain goes the more elemnets it has to the left.
`this.is.a.domain.com`
- Parent is .com, then `.domain` then `.a` and so on. `.a` is a subdomain to `.domain` so there is a hierarchy there to take into account. 
## Looking for domains:
Now lets imagine ur a computer and want to look for the page with domain example.com. There is this increible service called [[1728037357-dns|DNS]] that is made to solve the issue. Just call the dns service to find where the domain points to. 
***
### Up
### Down
**some tools**
- [[1764077455-nslookup|nslookup]]
- [[1764076990-host|host]]
***