---
aliases:
  - Distributions
tags:
  - discrete
"References:": 
cssclasses: 
sr-due: 2024-05-22
sr-interval: 2
sr-ease: 230
---
# Distributions: 
## Intro:
Start by understanding what a distribution problem is, let’s present the bars&Starts problem:

**Problem:**
	If we had r starts and we had to give those stars to n people how many possible different arrangements can we make. 
	For example: With two stars and 3 people two stars to one of them, one star to another one and a no starts to the last one is a possibility. But how many different possibilities are there?
	$$
	**| * |
	$$
**Remark:**
+ See that in the problem we had 3 people but only 2 bars. (bars as in the **bars**&stars problem)

## Solution:
To solve this problem lets first generalise it to n sets and r objects where the **conditions:**
+ The number of sets is fixed
+ The number of objects is fixed

The key in understanding distributions is to see that both objects and sets are just elements to arrange. When we painted the bars in the example above we had five symbols in total (2 bars and 3 stars) then in the generalised case we’ll have: 

+ r objects
+ n - 1 bars: needed to encase the objects

From these symbols, we can compute the possible groups of bars or objects as they would be the same due to how [[20240515 - 012600 - Definition - Binomial coefficients|Binomial coefficients]] properties work.

### Generalisation: 
Then, we can conclude that for r objects and n distinct groups:
$$
\binom{n+r-1}{r} = \binom {n+r-1}{n-1}$$
**Remarks:** 

+ If a group cannot be 0, then it needs for it's contents to be greater or equal to 1. Then the formula would be: 
$$
\binom{r-1}{n-1}
$$


f.e: 
	If we had 10 identical balls and 3 children to distribute the balls, and some children could be with no balls at all then there are: 
	r = 10 identical balls (“\*”)
	n = 3 children : n-1 bars (2 bars) ( “|” )
	$$
	* * * * * * * * * * 
	$$
	A possibility would be: 
	$$
	* * * *| * * * |* * * 
	$$
	One child gets 4, another one 3 another one 3. 
	Then there are a total of 12 symbols to arrange. We can compute the number of arrangements of one of the symbol types and we'll get them all: 
	$$
	\binom{3+10-1}{10} = \binom {3+10-1}{2}
	$$


### Applications 
#### Equations: 
$$
x_1 + x_2 + x_3+...+ x_i = n \in \mathbb{N}
$$
There are i variables and the sum of them all is equal to n. Then this can be transformed into a distribution problem (n identical balls and i children) and we get the possibilities of solutions for the equation: 
$$
\binom{n+i-1}{i-1}
$$
This solution is the one given without restrictions, however there are several restrictions that can be implemented that require changes.

**Restrictions**:
+ What if any variable cannot be 0? 
  If a variable cannot be 0 then there is one value fixed, only n-1 values left to distribute. 
  **If all x are integers > 0** then from n we must subtract x. The values still to distribute are n - x. 
  This can be applied to how many variables cannot be 0.
  
+ What if a variable needs to be **greater or equal than a value**? Assign those values from the start and decrease n so that that variables is already given it's part before starting to compute
+ What if the value of a variable has to be **equal to a certain value?** Then we assign those values to the variable (subtract them form n) and act as if that variable didn't exist
+ What if the variable needs to be **smaller than a value**? There are two possible things we can do here: 
	+ Compute it as the complement of the possibilities of the variables being greater than the value. (based on the S set) (S set - solutions when greater) **This is the one to use** 
		+ f.e: If the variable needs to be smaller than q. Compute the possibilities when it is greater than q. Then subtract them to the total possibilities. 
	+ Compute the possibilities for it to be each one of the integers below the value given and sum them.