---
aliases:
  - CSS Syntax
tags:
  - webdev
"References:": 
cssclasses:
---
# CSS Syntax:

```css 
div.bold-text{
	font-weight: 700;
}
```

This has the following elements: 
+ `div.bold-text`: Is a **selector**
+ `font-weight`: IS a **property**
+ `700` : Is the **value of the property**

This structure repeats on and on. We choose the type of element we want to alter and for each of it’s properties we specify a value. 

## Selectors: 
There are a lot of different selectors, the main ones are: 

### Universal selector:
The universal selector changes properties from elements of **any type**

```css 
*{
	color: purple;
}
```
In this example we see that the color purple is applied to all elements of any type.

### Type selectors:
 The type selector selects elements of only one type. 
```css 
div {
	color: purple;
}
```
Here the div selector only changes color to div elements. 

### Class selectors: 
Class selectors select all elements of the correspondent [[20240524 - 190013 - HTML Classes|HTML Class]]
Given some class `"alert-text"` we could have the following CSS snippet: 

```CSS 
.alert-text{
	color: red;
}
```
Where for all elements of class alert-text, the color would be red.

### ID selectors: 
Id selectors select all elements with the selected [[20240524 - 190723 - HTML IDs|HTML Id]].
The syntax is a bit different from class selectors. It uses a hashtag. 

```css
/* styles.css */

#title {
  background-color: red;
}

```

### Grouping selector: 
Used when several classes/ID’s share some elements but not all of them. 

Here .read and .unread share two properties
```css
.read {
  color: white;
  background-color: black;
  /* several unique declarations */
}

.unread {
  color: white;
  background-color: black;
  /* several unique declarations */
}

```

We can group them in the following way: 
```css
.read,
.unread {
  color: white;
  background-color: black;
}

.read {
  /* several unique declarations */
}

.unread {
  /* several unique declarations */
}

```

### Chaining selectors: 
Chained selectors are used to affect those elements that are in all the specified classes.
This combination can also be done with an id, just using a hashtag instead of a dot. 

This selector alters all elements that belong to both subsection and header classes.
```css
.subsection.header {
  color: red;
}
```

