---
aliases:
  - Files
tags:
  - os
"References:": 
cssclasses:
---
# Files: 
**Remember:** The architecture of almost all systems sets a division between the **main memory** and the **secondary memory**. 
+ Main memory is the one used to store non-persistent data, data that is only accessed directly by the processor. 
+ The secondary memory is non-volatile, this means that the data is actually stored there, when we talk about the data we have store in a computer we are talking about this secondary memory. This memory is divided in data blocks, to divide the memory we use an abstraction, this abstraction we call **files**

We can say that a file is no more than a byte block. 

## What is a file system?
A file system offers the user a logical view for handling peripheral devices n form of files. It hides the details that do not interest to an user. It has the following functions: 
+ Organization 
+ storage
+ Retrieval
+ Name management
+ Implement co-utilisation semantics
+ Protection 

### Views of the file system:
The logical view contains: **Files, Directories, File systems and partitions**
The physical view contains: **Blocks of bytes placed in 
devices (storages of data)**

### Features for users: 
Permanent storage of information
Logic structure for info
Logical and structured names
No application controls it
Abstract physical storage devices
Accessed through OS system calls or utility libraries

## File attributes: 
A file can have several attributes: 
+ Name: Readable format
+ Identifier: Usually numeric identifier for uniquely identifying the file 
+ File type: Only some systems need several besides the executable attribute. 
+ Location: Where in the system is it. Storage device and position
+ File size: Bytes it has, max bytes it could have 
+ Protection: Who has access to what 
+ Time information: When it was created, accessed etc.
## Operations on files: 
+ Create: Allocate initial space and metadata
+ Erase: Free the memory 
+ Write: Store info 
+ Read: Get info

However this operations cannot be done directly in the hardware devices as this is uncomfortable and unsafe. Because of this the file system is the software that layers between devices and users. 